PEP 682: small additions (#2322)
python/peps: pep-0682.rst

    [[fill]align][sign][z][#][0][width][grouping_option][.precision][type]

> where ``z`` is allowed for floating-point presentation types (``f``, etc.).

Reviewer: > floating-point presentation types

I think the previous wording is clearer here -- what is a "floating-point presentation type"? The example of `f` etc also doesn't help, as f-strings are a mechanism by which to format things to strings, not themselves a type.

Is there a reason we shouldn't say "numerical types other than integer"?

Author: "presentation type" refers to the `type` field of the format specification, and is used extensively in the format specification documentation to avoid confusion with the type of the format input value.  `f` is an example presentation type.  Would "(`f`, `g`, etc.) be more clear?

Author: > Would "(f, g, etc.)" be more clear?

I've made that change for now

Reviewer: "floating-point presentation types as defined by the format specification"? If the list of floating point presentation types is small enough, it might be better to just list them all exhaustivley -- i.e. `f`, `g`, `blah` as Python 3.11.

I didn't pick up that this was a reference to the format spec usage from the docs -- when I see `type` I read that as a object type by default. It also might be worth adding a sentence on the fact that input types get coerced depending on the presentation type, or just redirect to the docs here -- the distinction isn't obvious right away to those who haven't spent a lot of time with the formatting innards.

A

Author: I'm wondering if it's enough as is.  This PEP extends the Format Specification Mini-Language, and there is already a link to those docs.  The phrase "floating point presentation types" is used twice there, e.g. in defining the recently-added `'_'` option.

Even if the person evaluating the PEP isn't familiar with the mini-language documentation, "presentation type" seems a good hint that it's regarding the output type, and to further clarify I've given a few examples (`f`, `g`).  There are 9 floating point presentation types-- I'd rather not list them exhaustively.

Author: I've changed the wording to:

> (``f``, ``g``, etc.,  as defined by the format specification documentation)

Reviewer: nine is too many, yes. I think your latest change is sufficient to point to the right direction -- thank you.

A

extending %-formatting with new options, as was the case for the
``,`` option (:pep:`378`).

> C99 ``printf`` is already employing the ``z`` option character for another

Reviewer: simpler to read. I'd also avoid the colon in the next line (169) if possible, but it is easier to parse.
```suggestion
C99 ``printf`` already uses the ``z`` option character for another
```

purpose:  qualifying the unsigned type (``u``) to match the length of
``size_t``.  However, since the signed zero option specifically disallows
``z`` for integer presentation types, it's possible to disambiguate the two

> uses, should C99 want to adopt this new option.

Reviewer: This may be ignorance of how the C standard works -- I thought when standardised to a year (C 1999) the specification didn't change following that, so "should C99 want to adopt this new option" can never be true. If not please dismiss this comment.
